# Definitions # 

## Types of Users ##

### - Principals ###
Principal users are assigned to an entire building in Canvas, a buidling is often referred to as a *sub-account*. Principals are able to view all courses, past and present, all users, as well as add users to courses. 

### - Teachers ###
Teacher users are able to add users to their course, but they are not able to remove Student users. They can remove all other types. Teachers can add/edit/delete all materials and files in their course. Teachers can create as many sandbox/practice courses as they would like and are able to access all past content/courses. 

### - Guest Teachers ###
Guest Teacher users are able to do everything that a teacher user is able to do *except* add/remove any user or delete any material or file. Their roletype is purely additive. Additionally, they are able to view grades in the course but unable to modify any grades or grade assignments. 


### - Educational Assistants ###
EAs have a unique role in Canvas. They are assigned to a building based off a spreadsheet that adminsitrators and office staff fill out at the start of each academic year. Throughout the year buildings make requests directly via email to have new employees added or modified as EAs may switch buildings. 

### - Course ###
A Course is defined as a section that is generated by our *Student Information System* (SIS), Synergy. The SIS generates individual sections based off period sections, these populate on the teacher and student dashboards (home pages of Canvas) as individual courses. Teachers then have the ability to *cross-list* these courses into a master or parent course. Most teachers take advantage of this and cross-list the same *prep* into a singular parent-course as not to duplicate work for themselves. 
This structure could look like: 
- Science Period 1 (The parent course)
  - Science Period 2
  - Science Period 3
  - Science Period 5

This way periods 2-5 are nested inside of Period 1. 

Key Features of a Course in relation to our SIS, include: 
- [Synergy Grade Passback](synergy_passback.md)
- Syncing of student and teacher enrollments
- Auto-population of courses/sections into Canvas from Synergy (requires a teacher user and at least 1 student user be enrolled) 

